BLE and Thread coex (#17165)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/multiprotocol/index.rst

  The application logic must take this into account by providing a callback for all crucial transmissions and handle the ``MAC_TRANSACTION_OVERFLOW (== 241)`` status code.
* The most time-critical part of the Zigbee stack operation is the Base Device Behavior (BDB) commissioning process.
  Postpone time-consuming operations until the ``ZB_BDB_SIGNAL_DEVICE_FIRST_START`` or ``ZB_BDB_SIGNAL_DEVICE_REBOOT`` signal is received.

> .. _multiprotocol_bt_thread:

Reviewer: Can we refer to this page in the Matter bridge application documentation? We could use it when describing the number of supported Bluetooth LE devices.

Bluetooth LE and Thread coexistence
***********************************

The Thread protocol has a lower priority than Bluetooth LE.

> When Bluetooth LE consumes a significant amount of radio time, such as during Bluetooth LE central start scanning or to maitain a large number of connections, this can lead to insufficient time left for Thread to access the radio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Bluetooth LE consumes a significant amount of radio time, such as during Bluetooth LE central start scanning or to maintain a large number of connections, this can lead to insufficient time left for Thread to access the radio.
```

To maintain effective Thread communication, it is essential to reduce the radio time for Bluetooth LE.
This can be achieved by adjusting the scan and connection parameters.

Bluetooth LE scan parameters
============================

The key parameters for scanning are:

- *Scan interval* - The time between consecutive scans.
- *Scan window* - The amount of time within the scan interval that is dedicated to actual scanning.

By reducing the scan window for a given scan interval, the actual radio time used by Bluetooth LE decreases, thereby freeing up more time for Thread.
Similarly, increasing the scan interval for a set scan window also frees up more radio time.
Note that this is not purely about the overall percentage of time used by Bluetooth LE.

For example, while both a 20 ms scan window with a 60 ms interval and a 100 ms window with a 300 ms interval consume the same 33% percentage of time, they do not have the same effect.
The key difference lies in how long Bluetooth LE consistently occupies the radio during active scanning.

> If the scan window is too long, the likelihood of Thread transmissions clashing with Bluetooth LE activity rises, leading to potential collisions and communication delays.

Reviewer: I would change the end of this sentence a bit, as it's not necessarily about communication delays. Potential collisions lead to transmission errors, that may result in delay (thanks to retransmissions), but when there is too little time left for Thread the communication will not work at all. I think we could just say that collisions lead to transmission errors.

Reviewer 2: We could the sentence with "leading to potential collisions and communication delays, and even transmission errors"?

Reviewer: If we get a clash it's always transmission error. The question is whether it's only single transmission error fixed by retransmission or whole communication tear down, because all transmissions are failing for the longer time. So to be true it should be something like "leading to potential collisions and in result communication delays, or even complete communication breakdown"

Reviewer 2: Getting a bit long, so suggesting a split into two sentences:
```suggestion
If the scan window is too long, the likelihood of Thread transmissions clashing with Bluetooth LE activity rises.
This can lead to collisions, and can result in communication delays or even complete communication breakdown.
```

.. note::
   If the scan time is too short, advertising packets from the peripherals might be skipped.

Bluetooth LE connection parameters
==================================

The key parameters for connection are:

- *Connection interval* - Time between successive wake-ups of the Bluetooth LE devices for communication.
- *Event space time* - The time between consecutive events or connections with paired Bluetooth LE devices.

> When multiple Bluetooth LE devices are connected, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When multiple Bluetooth LE peripherals are connected, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.
```

To increase the available time for Thread, you can, for instance, increase the connection interval.
It will decrease the communication throughput, but will free up more time for Thread.

Another option is to reduce the event space time.

> This time can be optionally used when the peripheral device has a big amount of data to send and it exceeds typical width or radio slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This time can be optionally used when the peripheral device has a big amount of data to send and it exceeds typical width of radio slot.
```

  The application logic must take this into account by providing a callback for all crucial transmissions and handle the ``MAC_TRANSACTION_OVERFLOW (== 241)`` status code.
* The most time-critical part of the Zigbee stack operation is the Base Device Behavior (BDB) commissioning process.
  Postpone time-consuming operations until the ``ZB_BDB_SIGNAL_DEVICE_FIRST_START`` or ``ZB_BDB_SIGNAL_DEVICE_REBOOT`` signal is received.

.. _BT_Thread_coex:

> Bluetooth LE and Thread coexistence

Reviewer: I think we have to mention somewhere that we consider Bluetooth LE central role.

###################################

Radio Time Management Between Bluetooth LE and Thread
*****************************************************

The radio is dynamically switched between Bluetooth LE and Thread tasks, allowing active communication in both protocols without the need for two separate radio chips.

> However, Thread has a lower priority compared to Bluetooth LE, In scenarios where Bluetooth LE consumes a significant amount of radio time,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, Thread has a lower priority compared to Bluetooth LE. In scenarios where Bluetooth LE occupies a significant amount of radio time,
```

Reviewer: This comment was not addressed.

such as during scanning or maintaining a big number of Bluetooth LE connections, there may be insufficient time left for Thread.
Consequently, Thread may attempt to communicate during the same time slots allocated to Bluetooth LE, but since it has a lower priority, it might not get access to the radio.
In such situations, Thread communication can become inefficient or even be lost entirely.

> To maintain effective Thread communication, it is essential to reduce the radio time for Bluetooth LE. This can be achieved by adjusting the connection and scan parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain effective Thread communication, it is essential to reduce the radio time used by Bluetooth LE. This can be achieved by adjusting the connection and scan parameters.
```

Bluetooth LE Scan Parameters
****************************

The key parameters for scanning are

- *scan interval* (the time between consecutive scans).
- *scan window* (the amount of time within the scan interval that is dedicated to actual scanning).

By reducing the scan window for a given scan interval, the actual radio time used by Bluetooth LE decreases, thereby freeing up more time for Thread.

> Analogously increasing the scan interval for a given scan window, there will be same effect.

Reviewer: I would add somewhere the sentence that it's actually about the % of time that is occupied by Bluetooth LE. However, the user has to be careful, as using 20 ms window and 60 ms interval (33% of used time) will not be the same as using 100 ms window and 300 ms interval (also 33%). This is because period of time constantly occupied by BLE for active scanning should not be too big, as probability of Thread transmissions hitting this part will be bigger.

This can impair the efficiency of the scan, that is, we can start skipping the advertising packets of the peripherals because the scan time will be too short.

Bluetooth LE Connection Parameters
**********************************

> A similar approach can be applied in situations where multiple Bluetooth LE devices are connected, each assigned a communication slot. If there are too many devices, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Moving some of the information after the parameters.

> A similar approach can be applied in situations where multiple Bluetooth LE devices are connected, each assigned a communication slot. If there are too many devices, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A similar approach can be applied in situations where multiple Bluetooth LE peripheral devices are connected, each assigned a communication slot. If there are too many devices, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.
```

> The parameters that influence radio time for Bluetooth LE in this case are

Reviewer: There is also a third parameter that is number of connected devices.

Reviewer: This comment was not addressed as well.

- *connection interval* (time between successive wake-ups of the BLE devices for communication).
- *event space time* (the time between consecutive events or connections with paired Bluetooth LE devices).

> To increase the available time for Thread, you can, for instance, increase the connection interval.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When multiple |BLE| devices are connected, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.
To increase the available time for Thread, you can, for example, increase the connection interval.
```

This will slow down the communication but will free up more time for Thread.

> Another option is to reduce the event space time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another option is to reduce the event space time.
```

Bluetooth LE connection parameters
==================================

The key parameters for connection are:

- *Connection interval* - Time between successive wake-ups of the Bluetooth LE devices for communication.
- *Event space time* - The time between consecutive events or connections with paired Bluetooth LE devices.

When multiple Bluetooth LE peripherals are connected, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.
To increase the available time for Thread, you can, for instance, increase the connection interval.
It will decrease the communication throughput, but will free up more time for Thread.

Another option is to reduce the event space time.
This time can be optionally used when the peripheral device has a big amount of data to send and it exceeds typical width of radio slot.
Reducing the event space time is an ideal option when there is little data to transmit over Bluetooth LE because it minimizes the idle time between events.
This leaves more time for Thread communication across the entire timeline.

Example parameter values
========================

It is important to note that there is no universally optimal set of parameters for every scenario.

> The selection of these parameters should be based on specific assumptions,
> as different values will be more suitable depending on the expected Bluetooth LE throughput, the device's responsiveness, and the anticipated Thread radio link quality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The selection of these parameters should be based on specific assumptions, as different values will be more suitable depending on the expected Bluetooth LE throughput, the device's responsiveness, and the anticipated Thread radio link quality.
```

> In our case, we assumed minimal data transmission from the device and aimed to maintain a Thread radio retransmission rate below 10%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following values assume minimal data transmission from the device and aim to maintain a Thread radio retransmission rate below 10%.
```

- *Event space time* - The time between consecutive events or connections with paired Bluetooth LE devices.

These parameters are chosen for a single device, but the total time occupied by Bluetooth LE communication must be multiplied by the number of connected devices.
As a result, when multiple Bluetooth LE peripherals are connected, the remaining time for Thread could be insufficient.
To increase the available time for Thread, you can, for instance, increase the connection interval.
It will decrease the communication throughput, but will free up more time for Thread.

Another option is to reduce the event space time.
This time can be optionally used when the peripheral device has a big amount of data to send and it exceeds typical width of radio slot.
Reducing the event space time is an ideal option when there is little data to transmit over Bluetooth LE because it minimizes the idle time between events.
This leaves more time for Thread communication across the entire timeline.

Example parameter values
========================

It is important to note that there is no universally optimal set of parameters for every scenario.

> The selection of these parameters should be based on specific assumptions,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The selection of these parameters should be based on specific assumptions,
> as different values will be more suitable depending on the expected Bluetooth LE throughput,the device's responsiveness, and the anticipated Thread radio link quality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The selection of these parameters should be based on specific assumptions, as different values will be more suitable depending on the expected Bluetooth LE throughput,the device's responsiveness, and the anticipated Thread radio link quality.
```
